I never had a Game Boy as a kid meaning
I missed out on an entire era of
handheld gaming but that's okay there's
time thanks to the funny playing fpga
build your own Game Boy kit now the
whole concept of this product is a
little confusing to me since apparently
it's so easy to build that you can just
do it yourself and yet they don't want
to do it they do not offer the option to
pre-assemble it and ship it to you but
realistically I'm pretty technical and
I'm sure that I
can figure out how
to get
the okay I I I I'm I'm Hamming it up I'm
Hamming it up calm down I can open a bag
oo this is a perfect opportunity to show
off our upcoming Precision screwdriver
kit for lonus coming soon to LTT
store.com let's have a look at
everything that's included in our kit
we've got the Game Boy case which comes
in clear or black or apparently a
variety of other colors but those are
the two that we got and I chose clear
and obviously this is not a Game Boy
this is a Game Boy Color shell but it
will apparently play both Game Boy and
Game Boy Color games got some Hardware
got a funny playing 3.7 volt lithium
battery this Pro is probably a screen
apparently it is significantly brighter
than the original not backlit Game Boy
Color screen I'm actually going to save
that peel until later these are the
membranes and these are the buttons they
apparently strongly recommend trying it
out before assembly which I guess makes
sense that's something we can do and
then we've got the main board itself
this is the star of the show featuring
contact pads for all of our buttons on
the face and coming around to the back
an fpga processor that makes this not so
much an emulation machine more of an
actual Game Boy SL Game Boy Color
because fpga is short for field
programmable Gat array and on a hardware
level this chip can mimic the
functionality of those devices not
emulating them in software but becoming
them which is incredibly cool given the
price that this comes in at a little
over $80 for everything that you see in
front of you uh not including the
Precision driver kit honestly even if I
had a game boy or a Game Boy Color this
would be very attractive to me because
all of a sudden I can charge with
USBC not to mention apparently the
speakers are quite a lot better where
are they ah yes speaker sorry did I say
speaker cuz I meant speaker now
something to note is unlike a console
console you're not going to get the same
kind of standby battery life our friends
over at retro gamecore found that they
lost about 50% of the remaining battery
being in standby for just 8 hours and
their suspicion is that is because the
game is still running in the background
albeit at a lower power mode we've got a
couple more ports here we've got our
volume rocker as well as our EXT Port
which I guess if you were one of the
very few people I didn't know anyone who
had one if you were one of the very few
people that had one of those link cables
you could could they use it for
multiplayer games you could definitely
share Pokemon with it and I never knew
anyone who did that we got our power
switch over here our game cartridge slot
it takes both Game Boy and Game Boy
Color modes and can emulate each of
those consoles separately and that's
worth noting because even though you
could run Game Boy games in a Game Boy
Color it would behave slightly
differently in some cases and now I
think it's time to go ahead and put this
thing together I'm thinking I'll just
like kind of what start at the front
here and uh hopefully I don't screw this
up too badly is this keyed oh yeah look
at that it's keyed you can't you can't
screw it up oh yeah look at that can
only be assembled one way this is going
great I hope now we're going to put the
funny playing speaker in here any
particular orientation they want for
this or I'll figure it out don't tell me
don't tell me is there a cover on this
thing why'd you put a cover on there
funny playing you guys funny playing
with me I think I've got everything in
it's time to screw this I've screwed it
in oh yeah can he assemble the whole
thing while it acts as a fidget spinner
nope I'm going to need the spinny
top oh that's kind of cool so the IR
emitter is optional and I guess we don't
have it right so I'll just I don't know
I can put either one of them in it
doesn't matter I'm going to put the
clear one in why are some of these
screws triwing dang it funny playing we
don't like that about Nintendo don't
copy that okay wait a second hold on
whoo there are a lot of really different
screws here what is this long Phillips
head that I put in here oh dude did I
just drive that through the
entire oh boy okay now I got this i got
this no it didn't drive all the way
through it just left a mark let's just
put the battery and what could go wrong
right now so those two go through the
shell I'm going to say the tri WIS go
through the back of the chassis here and
I'm going to say the three Phillips
heads go anywhere where there isn't a
hole in the back of the chassis we got
good we good oh well that's fine cuz the
battery just sits in here anyway there's
even a little recessed thing for it this
is totally fine oh man I was all oh no
I'm going to have to like put the
battery here and there's going to be a
screw sticking into it no this is great
yeah guys I mean okay yeah sure the
instructions might be nice if they were
a thing that existed but realistically
if you're reasonably Savvy or if you
watch this video you could probably put
this together for yourself you guys
believe that both Belle who's sitting
here producing for this video and Andrew
who's shooting it
are skipping our land I bet if you
worked here you wouldn't skip the
land what kind of person is like that
even our CEO tan is coming to the land
you're not coming to the
land what a dick that's the problem with
Executives they think they're too good
to mingle with us common people there we
go tighten this boy up oh yeah okay make
sure that switch is working there's our
o makes sense that would uh make sense
that that would power it on I just want
to see this screen power on before I put
in the rest of the screws and commit
here ah okay cool you're the lift up at
the back style the little uh little
black part there you just give that a
little lifty lift without touching the
actual PCV with any metal and then this
boy I already peeled the adhesive on it
so I assume it's going to go in a little
something like that I'm not going to lie
I was kind of expecting it to um do some
oh hey there was no game in it I figured
it out and that's going to come off
little something like that a s
I just built a Game Boy I am qualified
to work at Nintendo's Factory in the
year
1983 wait who brought this video to you
oh it must have been our sponsor
jlcpcb thanks to jlc PCB for sponsoring
this video If you're looking to
customize or even create your own Game
Boy motherboard jlc PCB is the perfect
place to order your pcbs they offer
One-Stop services including PCB
manufacturing PCB assembly and component
sourcing catering to all your needs and
jlcpcb has over 5 million users with
turnaround times as fast as 24 hours
making them a great choice for engineers
and hobbyists who are looking to get
high quality pcbs right now they're
running a promotion on six layer pcbs
and a midyear mega sale event click the
link below in order to learn more let's
play a VI game shall we you can what we
got for games
o we got Super Mario Land not to be
confused with Super Mario okay oh
Kirby's Dreamland this is the one game
boy game that I actually have hours in
oh let's do this thing wow the um Game
Boy to Game Boy Color experience uh
leaves a lot to be desired doesn't it
let's push the volume button to access
ooh different display modes okay this is
pretty cool you can adjust how it scales
so right now we're using x 4 integer
scaling but we can also stretch it if we
don't want as uh true of a
representation you know what I'm
stretching it I'm I'm sorry I'm sorry
purists out there uh we can just switch
to the Game Boy core that's probably for
the best right now okay backl oh man
this is sick get all my little
adjustments in here frame mix and GB
color fix are apparently fixes if your
game doesn't work properly then you can
kind of try that and then the speed can
be adjusted you can update the firmware
just by plugging in Via USBC and just
dragging a new firmware file over which
is pretty freaking cool and I never
showed you guys the headphone jack at
the bottom before so let's go ahead I'm
going to switch to Game Boy mode waa
it's even
green Ah that's so cool ah ah no no
don't I'm going to die okay let's try
Game Boy Color game and you want to
compare to an actual Game Boy Color
right wow I forgot how small and crappy
that screen was H how's a d-pad compare
I mean this poor thing is like 25 years
old so so yeah it's pretty mushy this is
definitely better AB buttons feel pretty
similar start select buttons a little
better on the original the ergonomics
match very closely it's clear that
Nintendo's Plastics are a little better
even after all of these years just
things match up a little bit better but
man yeah USBC versus this stupid GC
Barrel Port here do we have another Game
Boy Color game yeah we got we got
something let's just throw this in here
just to just to show you guys cuz this
was not even a backlit display like it's
color but it's a reflective LCD like man
you want to play your old Game Boy Color
games ew no question this is awesome
yeah let's go to I don't know world six
sure I got this don't even trip dog
speakers are pretty sick on this
actually it's always a good sign when we
get distracted playing video games
compared to wa that's really loud the
whole chassis vibrates man I'm going to
beat one level okay that's all I ask
what he moved
up game over no no no I don't rage I
don't Rage Quit
ah all right let's have a look at a more
premium option the analog pocket oh hey
it's worth mentioning that compatibility
with flash carts is somewhat limited on
this one you got to make sure you get
one that works with it uh what we
suspect it's due to power constraints or
something like that possibly I don't
think we know exactly why that is but
just watch out for that if you're
planning to use Flash carts as opposed
to to using actual games like a good
little boy like we do this is a really
nice display and it's nice to have the
extra size whatever my wife might say it
really does make a difference it's
really heavy though really freaking
heavy this is actually the first time
I've used this thing it's like I know
it's kind of like a big deal device and
all that what we can all agree on is
that this is
terrible okay and either of these or
basically anything is much better let's
talk value the analog pocket is
obviously our premium option it gets
more battery life it's got a bigger
screen the build quality feels
noticeably more robust and it's more
powerful not just playing game boy and
Game Boy Color games but also playing
other retro console games hence the uh
four button layout compared to the two
button layout of our funny playing
however it costs now what's that work
out too it costs well over twice the
amount at over $200 compared to this
thing being around 85 yeah you got to
build it yourself but I think I just
showed you guys you can probably do that
in anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes
depending on your level of skill now
where the Game Boy Color comes in is
around 60 around 60 us why would anybody
ever buy this then okay so just don't do
that yeah there's no way that I would
consider this and honestly unless I
really wanted the flexibility of playing
those other consoles I just don't see
how I would take a device that's this
big and this heavy compared to how
pocketable this
is yeah this flipping awesome just make
sure you get a compatible multi card if
you're um a filthy pirate see you later
subscribe to Short Circuit